README.md, before:

# Vision-System-Python
A new vision system written in Python. The devlopment of this Vision System is heavily based on
the prior versions of the Vision System, which were written in C++.

![Vision System Diagram](images/VisionSystemDiagram.PNG "Vision System Diagram")

## Communication
This is the "server-side" application for the vision system that communicates with both the 
[front-end application](https://github.com/umdenes100/VisionSystemRemoteClient) and the 
[WiFi Modules (ESP8266)](https://github.com/umdenes100/WifiFirmware).

### Front-end Communcation
The front-end communication works over **TCP 8080** and **TCP 9000**. 

The *image server* is the connection over TCP port 8080 and serves the JPEG images coming 
from the video feed. The front-end handles these images and displays them when a user 
is connected properly. This connection is a one-way connection, meaning the back-end is
not expecting any communication *back* over port 8080.

The *message server* is the connection over TCP port 9000 and acts as the message communication
back and forth between the front-end and this back-end. This is a two-way communication channel
where the back-end will send things like debug messages and mission calls to the front-end and 
the front-end will send other pieces of information back. 

### WiFi Communication
The OTV uses the ESP8266 modules to communicate over UDP port 7755. Check out the reference
at the bottom of this README if you don't know the difference between TCP and UDP communication.

The structure of the packets are the following:
```
[seq_byte][func_call][message]
```

**Function Calls:**
- 0 = PING
- 2 = Enes100.begin()
- 4 = Enes100.updateLocation()
- 6 = Enes100.mission()
- 8 = Enes100.print() or Enes100.println() 

*NOTE: the sequence numbers are not really used*

## Files
The important files will be listed and summed up below. Check out [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for more information 
and Gary's notes on everything about the Vision System (from the PC to OpenCV to Websocket connections).

### vs_main.py
The entry point to the Vision System. If you are in terminal, go into the dev environment by running 
`cd ~/dev/Vision-System-Python` and run `python3 vs_main.py` to start the program. Using the terminal 
is the best way to debug as we can add print statements and all that jazz.

If you just want to run the Vision System for normal use, there should be a desktop application 
that runs this program. The application should have a little arcade icon and be called "Vision System". 

### vs_gui.py
This file includes functions for the functionality behind the GUI for the main window, using **mainwindow.ui**
as the design file for the GUI. The changes on the gui (such as changing the camera settings) are 
passed as system commands to change camera settings or passed to a data structure as drawing settings 
for **vs_opencv.py** to use.

### vs_opencv.py
This file includes functions for capturing camera frames and passing them to the image server. 
This is where the drawings for the video feed are updated using a data structure that **vs_gui.py** writes to 
when switches on the GUI menu are changed. 

This file depends on **arena.py**, **aruco_marker.py**, and **processed_marker.py**

### vs_comm.py
This is the biggest part of the Vision System code-wise. Connections to and from the Vision System via
TCP ports 8080 and 9000 as well as UDP port 7755 are handled in the functions in this file. 

### vs_ws.py 
This file has functions for writing to and receiving from a websocket. I decided to separate these 
functions from **vs_comm.py** becuase they are long and specific to the websocket server. More details
and my notes are in [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for websockets.

### vs_mission.py
This contains one big function to return the correct response when a mission() call was called
over UDP 7755.

### mainwindow.ui
This is the GUI interface file for the Vision System. The development of this GUI utility was 
done using **Qt 5 Designer**. One could write program to completely design the GUI interface instead 
of using this nice utility, but the utility was very nice and useful.

## Contributors

- [Gary](https://github.com/itsecgary)
- [Eric](https://github.com/ephan1068)
- (Pending my contributions to this branch) [Forrest](https://github.com/ForrestFire0)


## Resources & References
[TCP vs UDP](https://www.lifesize.com/en/blog/tcp-vs-udp/)
https://github.com/Pithikos/python-websocket-server/blob/56af8aeed025465e70133f19f96db18113e50a91/websocket_server/websocket_server.py#L186
https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-sam/issues/88

Commit message:

Updated libraries, now installs using venv and installation script.

README.md, after:

# Vision-System-Python
A new vision system written in Python. The development of this Vision System is heavily based on
the prior versions of the Vision System, which were written in C++.

# Installation instructions
(Written 9/6/2023)
1. 


(All other content is not updated.)

![Vision System Diagram](images/VisionSystemDiagram.PNG "Vision System Diagram")

## Communication
This is the "server-side" application for the vision system that communicates with both the 
[front-end application](https://github.com/umdenes100/VisionSystemRemoteClient) and the 
[WiFi Modules (ESP8266)](https://github.com/umdenes100/WifiFirmware).

### Front-end Communcation
The front-end communication works over **TCP 8080** and **TCP 9000**. 

The *image server* is the connection over TCP port 8080 and serves the JPEG images coming 
from the video feed. The front-end handles these images and displays them when a user 
is connected properly. This connection is a one-way connection, meaning the back-end is
not expecting any communication *back* over port 8080.

The *message server* is the connection over TCP port 9000 and acts as the message communication
back and forth between the front-end and this back-end. This is a two-way communication channel
where the back-end will send things like debug messages and mission calls to the front-end and 
the front-end will send other pieces of information back. 

### WiFi Communication
The OTV uses the ESP8266 modules to communicate over UDP port 7755. Check out the reference
at the bottom of this README if you don't know the difference between TCP and UDP communication.

The structure of the packets are the following:
```
[seq_byte][func_call][message]
```

**Function Calls:**
- 0 = PING
- 2 = Enes100.begin()
- 4 = Enes100.updateLocation()
- 6 = Enes100.mission()
- 8 = Enes100.print() or Enes100.println() 

*NOTE: the sequence numbers are not really used*

## Files
The important files will be listed and summed up below. Check out [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for more information 
and Gary's notes on everything about the Vision System (from the PC to OpenCV to Websocket connections).

### vs_main.py
The entry point to the Vision System. If you are in terminal, go into the dev environment by running 
`cd ~/dev/Vision-System-Python` and run `python3 vs_main.py` to start the program. Using the terminal 
is the best way to debug as we can add print statements and all that jazz.

If you just want to run the Vision System for normal use, there should be a desktop application 
that runs this program. The application should have a little arcade icon and be called "Vision System". 

### vs_gui.py
This file includes functions for the functionality behind the GUI for the main window, using **mainwindow.ui**
as the design file for the GUI. The changes on the gui (such as changing the camera settings) are 
passed as system commands to change camera settings or passed to a data structure as drawing settings 
for **vs_opencv.py** to use.

### vs_opencv.py
This file includes functions for capturing camera frames and passing them to the image server. 
This is where the drawings for the video feed are updated using a data structure that **vs_gui.py** writes to 
when switches on the GUI menu are changed. 

This file depends on **arena.py**, **aruco_marker.py**, and **processed_marker.py**

### vs_comm.py
This is the biggest part of the Vision System code-wise. Connections to and from the Vision System via
TCP ports 8080 and 9000 as well as UDP port 7755 are handled in the functions in this file. 

### vs_ws.py 
This file has functions for writing to and receiving from a websocket. I decided to separate these 
functions from **vs_comm.py** becuase they are long and specific to the websocket server. More details
and my notes are in [NOTES.md](NOTES.md) for websockets.

### vs_mission.py
This contains one big function to return the correct response when a mission() call was called
over UDP 7755.

### mainwindow.ui
This is the GUI interface file for the Vision System. The development of this GUI utility was 
done using **Qt 5 Designer**. One could write program to completely design the GUI interface instead 
of using this nice utility, but the utility was very nice and useful.

## Contributors

- [Gary](https://github.com/itsecgary)
- [Eric](https://github.com/ephan1068)
- (Pending my contributions to this branch) [Forrest](https://github.com/ForrestFire0)


## Resources & References
[TCP vs UDP](https://www.lifesize.com/en/blog/tcp-vs-udp/)
https://github.com/Pithikos/python-websocket-server/blob/56af8aeed025465e70133f19f96db18113e50a91/websocket_server/websocket_server.py#L186
https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-sam/issues/88
